# PathfindingVisualizer
Visualizes search algorithms, including A*, LPA*, and D* Lite.

Instructions are included in the file 'pathfinding_visualizer.py', but they are reposted here:

## Mouse Commands

left mouse click -
  The first click places the start node.
  The second click places the goal node.
  Clicks after these nodes are placed will create barriers of the type determined by whatever type has been
  selected using the 'z' key toggle.

** Note that the program will not start until a start and end node have been selected.

right mouse click - clears a node of any unique status (becomes an empty node).

## Keyboard Commands

Key 'z' - toggle between visible and invisible barriers

Key 'g' - this will generate a graph with barriers; the number of barriers corresponds to the set obstacle density
of the program, which is by default 33.33%. Toggle the default obstacle density by changing the
BARRIER_RANDOM_CONSTANT in the program's code (below). In the program, you can toggle the type of barrier to be
generated by pressing the key 'z'. Pressing 'z' toggles between invisible barrier generation and visible barrier
generation.

Key 'm' - this will generate a graph with barriers like when pressing key 'g' in correspondence with the selected
obstacle density, except in this case a mixture of invisible and visible barriers will be generated. When a node is
selected to be a barrier during generation, there is a 50-50 chance of an invisible or visible barrier being
generated.

Key 'c' - clear the grid, meaning all nodes become empty nodes.

Key 's' - clear the grid of all nodes that are paths, open, or closed. These node statuses are described below.

Key 'b' - restore the graph to its state before the last search algorithm was initiated.

Key '1' - initiate A* without travel.

Key '2' - initiate A* with travel (compute shortest path and traverse to goal position).

Key '3' - initiate LPA*.

Key '4' - initiate D* Lite.


## The following are descriptions of all node statuses. Corresponding colors are defined further down.

Closed node - In the case of A*, a closed node is a node that has been visited due to its f-value being the smallest.
  For LPA* and D* Lite, however, a closed node is a node that is locally consistent, where a node is locally
  consistent when its rhs-value is equal to its g-value.

Open node - In all algorithms, the open node is a node that is in the open set, which is a priority queue.

Path node - A path node signifies that the node is part of the path to the goal node (may not be part of the shortest
path, in the case of locating and moving to the goal).

Invisible Barrier - A node which is not able to be traversed to, but the agent is not yet aware of this.

Visible barrier - A node which is not able to be traversed to, and the agent is aware of this.

Original start node - This node is simply the starting point for an algorithm which seeks to move the agent
from the start node to the goal node.

Empty node - A node which has no unique status.

Start node - The node at which the agent starts calculating the shortest path. This node changes when the algorithm
demands the agent to traverse from the start node to the end node.

End (goal) node - The node that the agent is attempting to find a shortest path to, and perhaps traverse to.

## Node Status Colors
- RED: signifies a closed node
- GREEN: signifies an open node
- BLUE: signifies an invisible barrier
- YELLOW: signifies the original start node if the start node is not static
- WHITE: signifies regular node (default color for a node)
- BLACK: signifies a visible barrier
- PURPLE: signifies a node which is part of the path taken to reach the goal
- ORANGE: signifies the start node
- GREY: for drawing the lines in the graph
- TURQUOISE: signifies the goal node
